- This change will not remove any existing parking or ban new parking. It does not impose a maximum number of parking spaces that can be built.
- This reform allows parking to meet the needs of each neighborhood: In less dense areas of the city developers will likely still build parking, but they can build the number of parking spaces that will meet demand, rather than an arbitrary number set by planners in Manhattan. This creates parking choice.
- Reducing parking mandates is an opportunity to meaningfully address multiple key issues of our time: increasing housing affordability and availability, reducing rent burdens, opening new commercial opportunities, addressing the climate crisis and making streets safer.
- Right now, the city forces new housing in most of New York to build expensive and unnecessary off-street parking. The parking minimum rules were created more than 50 years ago and it's past time for them to be reformed in a comprehensive manner.
- Parking mandates prioritize the needs and interests of the ~25% of New Yorkers who use cars to commute, thereby encouraging car-centric infrastructure. If these mandates were lifted, the City could better prioritize funding active and public transportation.
- Building below-ground parking can reach an astounding $150,000 per space, increasing rents by an estimated 17%. For every 1.2 parking spaces constructed, we could instead pay for 1 studio apartment.
- Transportation is the second-leading cause of climate change-causing emissions in New York City, and the top cause nationwide. If we're serious about combating the climate crisis, we need to do what we can to disincentivize driving. Parking mandates incentivize driving so lifting them will help break this cycle.
- Parking mandates make walking around our neighborhoods more difficult. They also harm street life by making it more likely that developers will build street-level parking garages instead of stores or restaurants.
- Cities like San Francisco, Minneapolis, Buffalo and dozens of other cities large and small have ended parking mandates and brought rents down without outlawing adding more parking in the neighborhoods that need it. It's proven to work right here in cities in New York State, and we should implement it in New York City, where our transit infrastructure is much better than in Buffalo.
- We should plan for the city we want, not the city we have: keeping parking mandates will keep us locked in a cycle of car dependence and make it harder to expand good public transportation options to every neighborhood in the city.
